Internet - the network of networks

ISP -  Internet Service Provider

SP -  Service Provider

SOHO - Small office and home office 

LAN - Local Area Networks 

WANs - Wide Area Networks 

DSL - digital subscriber line

CLI - command-line interface 

GUI - graphical user interface

firmware - The operating system on home routers

IOS - Internetwork Operating System 

Cable - Typically offered by cable television service providers, the internet data signal transmits on the same cable that delivers cable television. 

DSL - Digital Subscriber Lines also provide high bandwidth, high availability, and an always-on connection to the internet. 

Cellular - Cellular internet access uses a cell phone network to connect. 

Satellite - The availability of satellite internet access is a benefit in those areas that would otherwise have no internet connectivity at all.

Dial-up Telephone - An inexpensive option that uses any phone line and a modem.

Dedicated Leased Line - Leased lines are reserved circuits within the service provider’s network that connect geographically separated offices for private voice and/or data networking. 

Metro Ethernet - This is sometimes known as Ethernet WAN. In this module, we will refer to it as Metro Ethernet. Metro ethernets extend LAN access technology into the WAN. 

Business DSL - Business DSL is available in various formats. A popular choice is Symmetric Digital Subscriber Line (SDSL) which is similar to the consumer version of DSL but provides uploads and downloads at the same high speeds.

Satellite - Satellite service can provide a connection when a wired solution is not available.

QoS - Quality of Service

Network administrators must address two types of network security concerns: network infrastructure security and information security

BYOD - Bring Your Own Device

BYOD means any device, with any ownership, used anywhere.

WISP - Wireless Internet Service Provider  \

WLANs - wireless local area networks

IPS - Intrusion prevention systems  

SSH - Secure Shell

reload - command to remove an unsaved running config is the brief amount of time the device will be offline, causing network downtime. 

erase startup-config - clear all the configurations

ip default-gateway -  ip-address global configuration command for switches

show ip interface brief - verifying the condition of the switch interfaces

Unicast - Information is being transmitted to a single end device.

Multicast - Information is being transmitted to a one or more end devices.

Broadcast - Information is being transmitted to all end devices.


 nume
banner
3 parole
ip 
startup-config